USING SKILLS
There are various different skills in FSO you can use to your advantage. Some skills you may want to develop more than others, depending on the class of your character. For example; if you are a Mage, it will be more beneficial for you to work on skills such as alchemy, whereas if you are a Fighter it would probably benefit you more to work on skills such as blacksmithing since you are apt to need those skills for repairing armor damaged in battle.

The more you use a skill, the less likely it will be that the skill will fail. and the higher your skill level is, the more rewarding the output becomes. For instance, if your cooking skill is high you are less likely to burn food, or if your fishing skill is high you are liable to catch a broader variety of fish.

Lumberjacking - You will need to purchase an axe in order to use the lumberjacking skill. To chop down trees you must first find the proper type. To do so, equip your axe and go up to a tree and take a swing at it. If you hear a thud it means you can chop that tree down. If you have the lumberjacking skill you will get some logs when the tree falls. If you are just starting out, you will probably need to chop down a few trees before you get some results.
Mining - The mining skill works basically the same as the lumberjacking skill, but you'll need to purchase a mining hammer. You will need to locate a mine, equip your hammer and use it on some rock that is (hopefully) rich with crystals. If you hear a clank you'll know you are hitting the correct rock. If you have the mining skill some crystals might just appear where the rock once was. If you are just starting out, you will probably need to make several attempts before you get some positive results.
Blacksmithing - In order to smith you will need to purchase a blacksmith hammer. To repair rusted weapons and armor you'll need to find an anvil, equip the blacksmith hammer, then click SMITH on the rusted item. You will then be able to make a new item based off of how high your blacksmithing skill is.
Woodworking - To build an item using carpentry you'll first need some logs, a saw, and the carpentry skill. Equip the saw, then click on the logs and select BUILD. With any luck you'll be able to make something you can either decorate your house with or sell.
Alchemy - To mix a potion you'll need to purchase some colored sand and an empty potion bottle from a Magic Shop. You will also need to mine for some crystals or purchase some if you are rich and lazy. Then you will need to find an alchemy lab. Equip the colored sand (that coordinates to your desired crystal) and then click on an empty potion bottle in your inventory window and select MIX. Your potion will then be mixed. Your potion may fail a few times but you will eventually learn if you continue to try..
Cooking - To cook food you'll need something raw. You can aquire raw food by fishing or farming for it, or even by slaying certain monsters. When you have a small selection of raw food, find a stove and click on the raw food in your inventory window and select COOK. After a few moments your food will be ready...unless you burn it.
Fishing - In order to fish, you will first need to purchase a fishing pole. Then you will need to equip it and go to a body of water. You cast your rod by pressing the tab key... just as you would if you were attacking.
